.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" $Id: dot-spop3d.5,v 1.1.1.1 2000/04/12 20:52:25 jurekb Exp $
.\"
.\"  Solid POP3 - a POP3 server
.\"  Copyright (C) 1999  Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.\"
.TH dot-spop3d 5 "OCTOBER 1999" Unix "User's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
dot-spop3d \- user configuration data for The Solid POP3 Server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A user can specify their maildrop location, type and associated APOP
secret in the configuration file ~/.spop3d.
.PP
The file must be set to mode 0600 (\-rw\-\-\-\-\-\-\-) or the server will not
honour its content.
.PP
Maildrop specification consists of three parts, separated
by white space characters:
.TP
\fIMailDrop\fP \fBpath type\fP
.PP
\fBPath\fP should be specified in the same format as the \fI-n\fP option in
.BR spop3d (8).
\fBType\fP should be \fImailbox\fP or \fImaildir\fP.
.PP
APOP secret specification consists of the word \fIAPOPSecret\fP followed
by an encrypted secret. You shouldn't change this secret manually. Use
.BR pop_auth (1)
to do this.
.PP
Both maildrop and APOP secret specifications may optionally be followed
by a mailbox name. This allows, for instance, user\fI+\fPboxA and user\fI+\fPboxB to
be used as login names to access different mailboxes, where \fI+\fP
means value of \fBUserMailDropDelimiter\fP server setting (see \fBspop3d.conf\fP(5)).
.PP
The APOP secret associated with a particular maildrop should be followed
with the same mailbox name (or lack thereof). If no secret is specified
for a maildrop then the user's standard POP password should be used to
authenticate instead.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
MailDrop  	Mail/default	mailbox
APOPSecret	2345678901
MailDrop  	Mail/bugtraq	mailbox bugtraq
APOPSecret	0123456789	bugtraq
MailDrop  	Mail/private	mailbox private
APOPSecret	9876543210	private
.fi
.RE
.PP
To set the APOP secret for the above maildrops use the following
.BR pop_auth (1)
commands:
.RS
.nf
pop_auth
pop_auth bugtraq
pop_auth private
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.IP "~/.spop3d"
User configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR spop3d (8),
.BR pop_auth (1),
.BR spop3d.conf (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
