.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" $Id: pop_auth.1,v 1.1.1.1 2000/04/12 20:52:25 jurekb Exp $
.\"
.\"  Solid POP3 - a POP3 server
.\"  Copyright (C) 1999  Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.\"
.TH pop_auth 1 "OCTOBER 1999" Unix "User's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
pop_auth \- set an user's APOP secret
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B pop_auth
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Pop_auth
asks user for his APOP secret and stores this secret after encryption
in ~/.spop3d file. Used encryption is very weak and protects only from
curious system administrator who accidentialy looks at ~/.spop3d file.
Don't use your account password as the APOP secret!!!
.SH OPTIONS
No options are recognized.
.SH FILES
.IP "~/.spop3d"
User configuration file. APOP secret is writed here.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR spop3d (8),
.BR spop3d.conf (5),
.BR dot-spop3d (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
