.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" $Id: spop3d.conf.5,v 1.5 2000/04/28 16:58:55 jurekb Exp $
.\"
.\"  Solid POP3 - a POP3 server
.\"  Copyright (C) 1999  Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.\"
.TH spop3d.conf 5 "OCTOBER 1999" Unix "System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
spop3d.conf \- configuration data for The Solid POP3 Server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A configuration file consists of zero or more blocks. There are two kinds
of these blocks:
.I Global
and \fIVirtualHost\fP.
.I Global
block begins with 
.B <Global>
and ends with
.B </Global>
line.
.I VirtualHost
block begins with one of:
.RS
.TP
.B <VirtualHost xx.xx.xx.xx>
.TP
.B <VirtualHost host.name.com>
.TP
.B <VirtualHost xx.xx.xx.xx host.name.com>
.RE
.PP
lines, where
.B xx.xx.xx.xx
is an IPv4 (or IPv6) address and
.B host.name.com
is a virtual domain name (read VIRTUALS file).
.I VirtualHost
block ends with
.B </VirtualHost>
line. Each such block consists of zero or more options. Each option
is specified in separate line and has 2 parts:
option name and option argument, separated by a white space character
(one or more). There are 4 types of options:
.RS
.TP
.BR boolean
its argument can be "yes" (or "true") and "no" (or "false")
.TP
.BR string
its argument is string. String should be quoted (read the section \fBBUGS\fP).
.TP
.BR period
its argument is number which can be followed by one of these suffixes:
\fBs\fP (for seconds), \fBm\fP (for minutes), \fBh\fP (for hours), \fBd\fP
(for days), \fBw\fP (for weeks). This argument specifies some period of time
or some number.
.TP
.BR expire
exactly the same as \fBperiod\fP, but its argument can also be \fInever\fP.
.RE
.PP
Every text between \fB/*\fP and \fB*/\fP is treated as a comment and 
is ignored, unless it's inside quoted string.
.PP
Options from all
.I Global
and some
.I VirtualHost
(when their IPv4 (or IPv6) address is equal to socket address or
their block virtual domain name is equal to virtual domain name
specified by user) blocks are used. Options from left
.I VirtualHost
blocks are ignored. Configuration file is parsed two times, if user specify
virtual domain name (read VIRTUALS file).
.PP
Following options are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.B AllowRootLogin boolean
Allow root login. It's disabled by default and shouldn't be changed.
.TP
.B UserOverride boolean
Allow users specify their maildrops (path and type) and APOP secrets.
It's enabled by default.
.TP
.B AllowAPOP boolean
Users can authenticate themselves with APOP scheme. It's enabled by default.
.TP
.B MailDropName string
Specify path to maildrop. The format is the same as for \fB-n\fP option in
\fBspop3d\fP (8). Default value is
.I /var/spool/mail/%s
.TP
.B MailDropType string
Specify type of maildrop. The allowed values are \fImailbox\fP and
\fImaildir\fP. Default value is \fImailbox\fP (or \fImaildir\fP if
support for \fImailbox\fP isn't compiled in server).
.TP
.B APOPServerName string
Specify the server name which is used for APOP authentication. Default
value is a name obtained from gethostname() call.
.TP
.B AutoLogoutTime period
Specify the autologout time. The server quit when client is idle for
specified period. Default value is 2 minutes.
.TP
.B ChangeGID boolean
If enabled server changes his GID to GID of logged user. It's enabled
by default.
.TP
.B WrongCommandsLimit period
Specify the limit of wrong commands. The server quit when this limit is
exceeded. Limit is ignored when 0 is specified. Default value is 5.
.TP
.B ReadExpire expire
Expire read (in this instance of daemon) messages that are older than
\fBexpire\fP. Default value is \fInever\fP.
.TP
.B UnreadExpire expire
Expire unread (in this instance of daemon) messages that are older than
\fBexpire\fP. Default value is \fInever\fP.
.TP
.B DoMapping boolean
If enabled mapping of user names (read VIRTUALS file) is allowed.
Option is disabled by default.
.TP
.B UserMapFile string
Specify path to user names mapping file (read VIRTUALS file).
There is no default value.
.TP
.B AllowNonIP boolean
If enabled user is allowed to specify virtual domain name in when logging.
Read VIRTUALS file for details. Option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B UserBullFile string
Specify path to user bulletin file (read the section BULLETINS in README). 
The format is the same as for \fB-n\fP option in \fBspop3d\fP (8). 
Default value is \fI.spop3d-bull\fP.
.TP
.B BulletinDirectory string
Specify path to bulletin directory. 
Default value is ${localstatedir}/bulletins (/usr/local/var/bulletins).
.TP
.B LogPriority string
Set logging facility and priority. Default value is local0.notice.
Known facilities: daemon, local0, local1, ..., local7, mail, user.
Known priorities: emerg, alert, crit, err, warning, notice, info, debug.
facility or facility.priority combination are recognized.
.TP
.B AddBuletins boolean
Server checks for new bulletins in BulletinDirectory if enabled.
Option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B RequiredMapping boolean
If DoMapping and RequiredMapping are enabled user _MUST_ have entry 
in user mapping file. If DoMapping is enabled and RequiredMapping is disabled
user needn't have entry in user mapping file (no mapping is performed then).
Option has no effect when DoMapping is disabled. Option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B LogStatistics boolean
If enabled qpopper-like statistics are logged. At the end of each session
username, number of deleted messages, size (in bytes) of deleted messages,
number of messages left on server, size (in bytes) of messages left on server
are logged. Option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B CreateMailDrop boolean
If enabled maildrop (mailbox or maildir) will be created, when it doesn't
exist. Option is disabled by default.
.TP
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
<Global>
	LogPriority	daemon.info
	AllowRootLogin	yes
	MailDropName	Maildir
	MailDropType	maildir
	UserBullFile	.spop3d-blurp /* It's just an example */
	ReadExpire	0
	UnreadExpire	2w
</Global>
<VirtualHost 192.168.1.1>
	LogPriority	local0
	UserMapFile	/etc/pop3/192.168.1.1.mapping
	DoMapping 	true
	UnreadExpire	never
	APOPServerName	jakis.tam.host.w.pl
	MailDropName	"/var/spool/mail/%s" /* It is a comment */
	MailDropType	mailbox
	AutoLogoutTime	5s
	UserOverride	yes
	AllowAPOP 	yes
	ChangeGID 	true
</VirtualHost>
.fi
.RE
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
spop3d.conf should be readable by "spop3d" user!!! The server exits when
syntax error occurs in a configuration file. If a configuration file doesn't
exist (stat() failed), the server logs this fact only when in debugging mode.
.SH FILES
.IP "${sysconfdir}/spop3d.conf"
Global configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR spop3d (8),
.BR pop_auth (1),
.BR dot-spop3d (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
