.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" $Id: spop3d.8,v 1.1.1.1 2000/04/12 20:52:25 jurekb Exp $
.\"
.\"  Solid POP3 - a POP3 server
.\"  Copyright (C) 1999  Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.\"
.TH spop3d 8 "OCTOBER 1999" Unix "System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
spop3d \- The Solid POP3 Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B spop3d
[-rd]
[-n \fImaildropfile\fP]
[-t \fImaildroptype\fP]
[-a \fItime\fP]
[-f \fIconfigfile\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Solid POP3 Server is an implementation of the Post Office Protocol server
that has flexibility on mind. It has support for mailbox, maildir, APOP,
bulletins and few other things. It can work as inetd or standalone
server. See README for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-n \fImaildropfile\fP"
Specify a maildrop file (or directory). The following strings beginning with
.BR % 
character are recognized and replaced:
.RS
.TP
.B %s
replace it with user name
.TP
.B %dN
replace it with N-th character of user name
.TP
.B %%
replace it with single
.BR % 
character
.TP
.B %m
replace it with mapped user name (read VIRTUALS file)
.PP
If specified path is not absolute it is treated as relative to user home
directory. For example:
.I /var/mail/%d1/%d2/%s
is expanded to
.I /var/mail/j/u/jurekb\fP
and
.I Mail/bugtraq
is expanded to
.I /home/jurekb/Mail/bugtraq
for "jurekb" user on my system. The default is
.I /var/spool/mail/%s
or
.I Maildir
when mailbox support is not compiled in.
.RE 
.IP "-t \fImaildroptype\fP"
Specify a maildrop type.
.I mailbox
and
.I maildir
are supported. The default is
.I mailbox
or
.I maildir
when mailbox support is not compiled in.
.IP "-a \fItime\fP"
Specify an autologout time. The following suffixes are recognized:
.RS
.TP
.BR s
the time is specified in seconds
.TP
.BR m
the time is specified in minutes
.TP
.BR h
the time is specified in hours
.TP
.BR d
the time is specified in days
.TP
.BR w
the time is specified in weeks
.PP
Seconds are used if no suffix is present. The default value is 2 minutes.
.RE
.IP "-f \fIconfigfile\fP"
Specify a configuration file. The default is
.I ${sysconfdir}/spop3d.conf
.IP "-d"
Set server into debugging mode.
.IP "-r"
Allow root login. This feature is disabled by default and shouldn't be used.
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP "~/.spop3d"
User configuration file.
.IP "~/.spop3d-bull"
This file is used by bulletin code to determine last bulletin received by user.
.IP ${localstatedir}/bulletins"
Bulletins directory.
.IP ${sysconfdir}/spop3d.conf"
Global configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR spop3d.conf (5),
.BR pop_auth (1),
.BR dot-spop3d (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Jerzy Balamut <jurekb@dione.ids.pl>
